$
Hi everybody! I am very humbled and blessed to be accepted into Harvard last month and received my Yale and Stanford likely letters yesterday! As a first-generation college student, having this opportunity is something I never dreamed of and I am so grateful. Even though the turnaround is very quick, I am having a lot of difficulty thinking about which school would be the best for me. There have been other Stanford vs. Harvard threads, but I think your opinions should be based on each student's goals, interests, etc. I will try to explain this as best as I can. I am hoping to become a pediatrician in developing countries with a big focus on global health, education, and policy. My dream school has always been Stanford, but ever since I was a non-finalist for Questbridge, I rethought everything and thought if I could get into anywhere, it would be Harvard. Harvard is very prestigious and is strong across the board and probably has the best in biology and public health programs for HYS. There are many opportunities for undergrads to get involved. However, Harvard is known to not be as strong in undergraduate teaching as Stanford and Yale. I thrive off of intriguing and charismatic teaching and having a more even number of undergraduates and grad at Y and S is appealing to me. I am also very passionate in urban affairs and health and being in Cambridge and having a larger city in Boston nearby allows me to really develop this focus and help underprivileged youth in MA. Yale is similar with New Haven, and Stanford is a little more distant from the bigger cities (SJ, SF). However, I love to go outside in anytime I can (hiking, soccer, running) and Boston doesn't have the best climate as compared to more moderate Stanford. I know it shouldn't be a big deal, but that is something important to me. Harvard and Yale are also relatively closer to home since I am from the Mid-Atlantic and my parents want for me to stay relatively close to home just in case anything happens since I am their only child. I love to explore and start fresh but my family is very important to me. Stanford and Boston to an extent intrigue me as they have their respective Vietnamese student associations but also are situated in areas with high Vietnamese populations. My heritage is very important to me, and I haven't been able to do much while living in the Mid-Atlantic, so having that around me and being able to contribute more would be great pluses. They all have wonderful service opportunities. I also do not thrive off of pressure, and I've heard contradictory things about this but I've generally heard that the competition at Harvard can be very cutthroat and that many lower-income urban students like me have had a hard time adjusting to the elitism and prep environment (at Yale too). Stanford and Yale (to an extent) seem to be more collaborative and subjectively, have more school spirit. Stanford has amazing athletics that I want to participate and attend as much as possible and the general vibe of being more relaxed on the Farm in the California sun is very idealized but appealing to me. I also am not a frat type of guy at all, so I am still wondering where it is not that big of a presence on campus. I have visited Stanford and will visit Harvard this weekend. Yale is on the horizon too, and I know these visits are a big deal! Finances are extremely important, but luckily, due to these school's generous financial aid programs, the only costs I will have to pay will be through summer and term-time work. If i am misinformed in any of my judgements, please let me know! I hope it's not too mumbled jumbled. I will be very grateful to hear your guys thoughts! Again, I am so fortunate and lucky to be in this situation.